---
layout: post
title:  "Some Courses I have Taken & Recommend"
date:   2024-11-14 00:53:10 -0500
categories: Collection
---

- Some basic programming: 
    - One in python and another in C++ with data structure contents. Once I finish the course, Computer Science II is renamed into "Data Structure". I don't like the data structure contents, and some tricks like linked-lists are confusing. But it is acceptable.

- Computer Architecture: 
    - One of the most brutal classes for me. I like breadboard, but I hate following the manual instructions. I don't like the dry knowledge, though I think this is one of the most important classes.

- Applied Data Analysis: 
    - This is also called "intro to machine learning". It's one of my favorite classes because it really increased my stats intuition.

- Some basic maths: 
    - Including discrete math, [applied logic, sets & recusion], applied linear algebra, calculus. Choose a nice and intuitive instructor will help you a lot.

- Cybertechnology Ethics: 
    - It may sound unrelated to STEM majors, but it's fun and spritual. Think about what's the best decision that AI should make without against the nature of human and morality. It also related to some real judical cases in real life (not about commercial companies), and if you are interested in AI, this course is important.

- Intro Behaviral Neuroscience: 
    - Usually people think it is only related to cognitive science, but it is more than that. It mentioned how to understand the EEG graphs, and the collection of brain activities is used in robotics, if you want to use brain waves to control robot arm movements.

- Math Methods in Physics: 
    - I took it before I switched my major. It's just a brilliant course that covers and combines so many math topics together: complex numbers, linear algebra, differential equations, and vector calculus. You will see those concepts are not isolated once you reach the end of the semester. If your college allows, take it before calc 3, and you will gain a sense of intuition of which topic is commonly used. It's more application-based than proof-based.

- Intro & Advanced GIS: 
    - Another my favorite topics. Spatial data are special and sometimes cannot be treated using simple models, or you need lots of data engineering. Even though it is categorized into Geography Department or Environmental Studies, it is more like a data science class. Highly related to computer science, especially databases. While many students struggle understanding databases, GIS classes will show you the applcation of databases and give you a more intuitive thinking. Also, it is related to so much topics, like public policy, remote sensing, traffic, natrual disaster prevension, agriculture, sustainability, etc. 

- Probability: 
    - I took it after Applied Data Analysis, and I have already seen some notations from Applied Data Analysis textbooks. This is another course that I really like. It requires intuition before you taking it. You may need to spend some time on this course, but you will know the differences between different distributions and variable types. Do you remember the 68-95-99.7 concept? You will do proofs, and see a further version than what you have learned in high school.

- Classical Mechanics: 
    - One of the most challenging classes and the first "real" physis class that I take. You will understand the importance of choosing the coordinate systems, how math is used. You need to have a really good intuition rather than just do math calculation.

